cue
Boot from a removable device
To boot from a CD-ROM or USB device make sure that the computer firmware (BIOS or UEFI settings) is configured to boot the right device and that the priority is correct.

To start SystemRescue, insert the CD or USB in the drive, and power on or reset your computer, or press a key to select an alternative boot device when it starts.

Boot commandline options
In the bootloader you can press TAB (syslinux, used for classic BIOS boot) or “e” (grub, used for UEFI boot) to edit the boot commandline of the currently selected boot entry. You can then add the options listed below.

Available on commandline and YAML config
Most options are available on the boot commandline as well as in the YAML configuration in the global scope. Options on the boot commandline have higher priority than the ones in the YAML config.

The following options are supported on boot commandline and in YAML config:

setkmap=xx defines the system to configure the keyboard layout where xx corresponds to a keyboard map code. For example setkmap=de will configure the German keyboards layout during the boot process. You can also set the keyboard layout by running a command such as setkmap de from the shell after boot time, and you can run setkmap with no parameter in the terminal on a running SystemRescue to get a list of all supported keymaps.
copytoram causes SystemRescue to be fully loaded into memory. This corresponds to the docache option in previous versions. A slower start but once complete, the system will be more responsive and also it will not require the original device to run. It means you can actually work on the device where SystemRescue is installed. This requires 2GB of memory to cache the system.
checksum will trigger a verification of the squashfs checksum during the boot so you know if the file has been corrupted. You should use this boot option if you get unexpected errors when booting SystemRescue.
rootpass=password123: Sets the root password of the system running on the livecd to password123. That way you can connect from the network and ssh on the livecd and authenticate using this password. For security reasons it is recommended to use the alternative rootcryptpass option instead of rootpass so the password is not visible as clear text.
rootcryptpass=xxxx: Sets the root password of the system running on the livecd so you can connect to the system remotely via ssh and use the password to authenticate on the livecd. The password must be hashed using the mkpasswd command. The mkpasswd program is available on most Linux distributions, it often comes as part of the whois package. You need to provide the whole output of mkpasswd to rootcryptpass=, including the $ prefix. The hashed password contains dollar signs so you should check if your boot loader requires them to be escaped. If in doubt look at the /proc/cmdline of the booted SystemRescue.
nofirewall stop the iptables and ip6table services which are enabled by default in order to block incoming connection requests. You need to use this option if you need to establish connections to the system running SystemRescue from outside (for example connections to sshd). This option was introduced in SystemRescue-6.0.4.
rootshell=/bin/myshell use an alternative shell such as /bin/zsh instead of /bin/bash. This option was introduced in SystemRescue-6.1.1.
cow_label=xxxx Set the filesystem label where upperdir/workdir files for overlayfs must be stored. By default this option is not set and changes made on SystemRescue files are lost after a reboot. In other words you can use a Linux filesystem to persist all modifications made on SystemRescue when it runs such as new bookmarks in Firefox, application configuration files, etc. You have to provide the label of the filesystem that needs to be used to store these changes. All these changes will be isolated in a directory prefixed by persistent unless you override this using cow_directory
cow_directory=xxxx Name of the directory where to store changes made on the system. You must have specified a cow device for this change to take effect.
loadsrm=y Load all SRM modules located on the boot device
noautologin Do not automatically login on the console. Use this option if you intend to use SystemRescue to run automatic jobs to connect remotely and want to prevent local users from using the system from the console. This option was introduced in SystemRescue-8.06.
dostartx Automatically start the graphical environment. This option was introduced in SystemRescue-8.06.
dovnc Automatically start the VNC server to be able to remotely connect using a graphical session. This option was introduced in SystemRescue-8.06.
vncpass=password123 Set the VNC password for connecting remotely. Without this option connections to the VNC server will not be restricted. This option was introduced in SystemRescue-8.06.
Available only on commandline
The following options are supported only on the boot commandline:

cow_spacesize=xx sets the size of the Cop#start urbackup-server (rootful)
podman run \
  -detach \
  --name urbackup-server \
  --volume /mnt/client_backups:/backups \
  --volume urbackup-server_data:/var/urbackup \
  -p 55413-55415:55413-55415 \
  -p 35623:35623/udp \
  --tz America/Denver \
  uroni/urbackup-server
